they've taken over getting rid of our
alarm clocks Maps computers gaming
consoles cookbooks and fitness
instructors their goal to have us
completely under control
okay maybe not all that but do you know
what mysteries and possible hazards your
smartphone hides from humble beginnings
the very first smartphone appeared back
in 1992 when IBM introduced the Simon
Personal Communicator the device cost
about a thousand bucks could only send
emails and run simple apps and weighed
as much as a hammer but it was popular
for its time gradually the giant
dinosaur smartphone evolved and turned
into a sleek modern gadget that
accompanies us even when we're asleep
but don't charge your phone on the bed
the battery can quickly heat up when
it's getting juice if it makes its way
under your pillow there have been cases
when a phone caught on fire keep it on a
hard flat surface and remove the case
when it's plugged in that case can make
things too toasty as well when I say our
smart phones accompany us everywhere I
mean it like to the bathroom you ever
take a hot shower and leave your phone
on the bathroom counter with some music
or video playing don't do it the steam
from your shower can get inside the
device and once condensation sets in it
can ruin the internal parts and I have a
tip for that later
now if your USB cable is too long you
can shorten it at home to do this wrap
the cord around a pen or pencil and fix
it in place with two closed pins on each
end warm everything up with a hairdryer
for three to four minutes and let it
cool when you take out the pencil you'll
have a coiled cord that saves space say
you lose your phone and need to
immediately block it dial star pound
zero six pound and get its serial code
you can call your mobile provider tell
them that number
your phone will turn off without the
chance to unblock it to get rid of dirt
and debris that collect in the charging
port use a can of pressurized air like
they make for keyboards a couple of
quick pumps will clear everything out
and never ever stick anything into the
port to clean it out
forks toothpicks anything pointy forget
about it don't catch a case of
nomophobia or no mobile phone phobia the
fear of being without a smartphone it's
a sense of panic that occurs when people
forget their smartphone when leaving
home can't find their gadget for a long
time or just completely drain the
device's battery not having that palm
accessory can really put noma folds
under a lot of stress or a baby with
that in mind try to lay your phone down
more often when you constantly hold it
send messages and play games
it causes tension in your joints and
tendons to help yourself with that earn
your phone time make it a rule one hour
of productivity with work study and
chores equals 15 minutes of phone time
now don't forget to disinfect your phone
it's covered in germs scientists found
that it has 10 times more bacteria than
an average toilet seat huh can't imagine
how they did that study actually I can
don't use antibacterial wipes on it
though they're too abrasive fill a small
spray bottle with equal parts rubbing
alcohol and water spray a lint-free
cloth and use that to wipe down your
screen don't charge your phone until its
battery shows only 10% if your
smartphone still has a charge and you
recharge it again and again
it can wear down the battery and shorten
its lifespan don't always keep it on the
charger either if your phone's already
fully juiced but is still charging it's
not good for the battery to protect your
phone from peeping eyes keeping eyes
don't use a graphic or numeric password
no matter how complex those are the most
secure way to protect your gadget today
is with facial or fingerprint
recognition when you're watching videos
use a pair of sunglasses to hold your
phone up on a surface binders and all
cassette cases work great for this as
well don't use push notifications most
of them require a constant internet
connection so they make your phone and
battery work harder and who wants to do
that no matter how fragile they seem
modern phone models can easily send a
person into space of course for a real
flight you still need a rocket but an
ordinary iPhone is smart enough to
replace an on-board computer now get
this one ton of or contains one gram of
gold the same amount in 40 smart phones
so don't throw away your old devices
take them to the service center instead
improve the sound quality when recording
videos by closing the microphone with
your finger or a tissue
you'll muffle background noise so the
main audio stream will be clearer
you accidentally downloaded a bad app
with malware on your Android phone now
the app won't close well just press the
back key several times the system will
understand how dangerous the app is
closed it automatically and return you
to your desktop if you double tap on a
handset button in the phone app menu
it'll dial the last outgoing number try
to take a photo through your sunglasses
if the lighting your picture is too
bright it'll reduce the sun's glare and
your picture will come out way better
make a quick phone case when you're in a
jam inflate a balloon lay your
smartphone on it and slowly let the air
out the balloon will envelop the device
and keep the ports protected from
moisture and dirt can take pictures
valve if your TV or AC remote isn't
working pointed at your phone's
front-facing camera smartphone cameras
can see invisible infrared light coming
from the remote control if you don't see
a red dot or glow coming from the remote
it's time to change the batteries or the
remote itself now if you're afraid of
not hearing your alarm in the morning
put your phone in a cup or coffee mug
it'll make the sound louder just don't
add the coffee ever wonder why your
charger cord is so short manufacturers
do it on purpose to keep you from using
the phone when it's charging
just let it juice up without having to
work at the same time if you lose your
gadget click on the phone search link on
the main page of your Google account
when you select the device just call it
your smart phone will start playing the
ringtone at the maximum volume even if
it was in silent mode
next time the power goes out turn your
smartphone into a lamp just turn on your
phone's flashlight set its screen side
down on a table and put a water bottle
on the light to avoid confusing the left
and right earpieces wrap some electrical
tape on one of the cords try to remember
tape means right or left whatever you
choose if you can't find your charger
box or you left it at home
plug into a TV most have a USB input
that can charge your phone a bright
screen dreams your battery faster than
you think to save some power turn down
the brightness and use just a plain
black wall
don't ever use vibration mode either or
put some simple text on that black
background
make it your name email and the phone
number of someone close to you in case
you lose your phone the Good Samaritan
who finds it can get a hold of you if
your phone has fallen in water throw it
a life preserver and better yet turn it
off quickly remove the battery and
quickly wipe the phone with paper towels
use a can of air to blow through every
part of the phone for 20 minutes without
bringing it too close to the gadget if
you have a dual function vacuum you can
blow air with it or use a hairdryer on a
mild temperature setting
don't use the rice trick it doesn't work
restart your phone two to three times a
week it'll reset the appcache and your
device will work much faster to make
your phone screen look like new
grab a cotton pad and wipe it down with
a little shaving foam you can leave a
little stubble for that unshaved look
you can use the button on the headphone
wires to take selfies when you want a
wide-angle shot and your arms not long
enough to tap the screen next time you
go to the beach or on a camping trip put
your phone in a small Ziploc baggie
it'll keep dirt and water out also a
nice trick when you want to watch videos
in the shower but you didn't hear it
from me
finally before you go to the store take
a picture of the inside of your fridge
and pantry who needs to write out a big
long grocery list when you have tech on
your side